We added a basic form of routing,
now let's also add a way of passing data around with services.
A service is essentially a class which can act as a middleman between components or as a data storage
for other components or even interact with other services.
You can create a service anywhere and I will create my persons service in the persons folder because
it makes sense logically to add it there.
I'll name it persons.service.ts, that is kind of convention you typically use and again,
that is just a class, persons service.
Now here, we add another decorator and here it's the @injectable decorator,
you might have expected something like @service but that does actually not exist. Injectable needs
to be imported from @angular/core and you need to add parentheses after it and it's called injectable
because we can inject services into other components using a feature called dependency injection to which
I'll come back.
Now in this decorator, you want to add a Javascript object where you set the providedIn key to root and
this will make sure that Angular is aware of this service.
The alternative would be to not do that and instead go to your module, your app module and here in providers,
you would then add persons service and you need to add an import to that service in your file as well.
You need to do that or that other thing I showed before,
this makes Angular aware of the service and allows Angular to inject it into components that need it
and here, I'll not use the providers approach but I will use the actually recommended approach by adding
it in @injectable here.
So now Angular is aware of this and can inject it,
now what does inject mean though?
Well inject mean that component can simply define that it needs a certain class, a certain object
and Angular tries to give that element or that class to that component
and for that, you need to of course tell Angular which things are injectable and
that's exactly what we're doing here.
But step-by-step, before injecting this, let's add some logic to that class, to this service.
For example let's grab the persons array we have in the app component and let's remove it there and
let's add it here in
the persons service, instead of here in the app component and we also don't need this method here anymore,
therefore in the app component. In persons service, I added this and there, I will also add a method which
I'll name add person and the name is up to you
and there, I expect to get my name which is a string and there, I want to push data to my persons, like
this.
Now we have our very basic first version of that service set up,
how can we now use it?